Hey guys, welcome back to another video. Today I'm here to show you another very impressive ray tracing mod. And this particular mod is called Radiance. And we've seen ray tracing in Minecraft before. However, this mod sets itself apart in the fact that it can actually use hardware accelerated ray tracing. In the past, we've seen mods like Photonix introduce software-based ray tracing, which does work pretty well to its credit. But as far as I know, Radiance is the first mod to have actually released that allows you to use the dedicated cores within, say, an Nvidia GPU. And that's what I'm going to be doing today because I have the RTX5090, which is about as overkill as it gets and is probably going to be a great way to test this out. So, I'm going to be recording this in 4K, of course. And because there's an option within a branch of this mod, I'll be using HDR. So, if you have a screen that can properly display it, I'd absolutely turn it on because it's just going to look that much better. Anyway, first things first, the performance. Radiance runs very, very well. It's built off of Vulcan and can actually leverage technologies like DLSS. For me, this results in very stable, give or take, 120 fps on average. And remember, that's running the game and recording at 4K. Accomplishing this didn't require killing my render distance or anything like that either. It's set to a solid 16. And that 120 FPS isn't like occasionally spiking to that number and radically jumping around. It's a very solid and consistent frame rate. In fact, when it comes to performance, that's what's impressed me the most so far. The overall smoothness of the gameplay is phenomenal. It runs like butter. Anyway, moving on to the visuals. We'll start by focusing on the lighting. Radiance does a fantastic job with this. Because it utilizes ray tracing, light bounces off surfaces a multitude of times, illuminating the surroundings. This is especially noticeable within radiance, as the minimum light level is zero. If there's no light source, you can't see anything at all. So, for example, you can be emerging from within a pitch black cave and just a little bit of sunlight pouring in from the distance will illuminate the surrounding area. And this is, in my opinion, where ray tracing really shines, scenes that feature high levels of contrast. Another great example is if you are within a building without many windows or poles for light to make its way in. It's going to be fairly difficult to see in there. Yet, the light that does make its way in spreads convincingly. And a cool test to show this ray bouncing in action is to go somewhere like a cave, not in direct sunlight, and turn the ray bounces down to zero. Immediately, you're not going to be able to see anything except where that direct sunlight is. And as you slowly increase the ray bounces, you will quickly see much more of the surroundings become illuminated. And what's especially incredible is the fact that light bouncing off colored blocks, for example, will actually radiate that color subtly on its surroundings, even for blocks held within your hand. I thought this was really cool. I'm holding a diamond block right here, and when I approach the window and get hit by some sunlight, you can actually see the result of sunlight bouncing off that diamond within my hand in the surrounding area. Moving on, reflections and refraction within radiance are absolutely amazing as well. I'll show you some examples of that. So, here I'm using the SPBR resource pack, and when I'm standing in front of a block such as iron, I can actually see myself in it. Now, granted, it's not a full-blown mirror, but I mean, it shouldn't be. And these glass panes, for example, will refract the image depending on the angle I'm holding my camera. So, as I slowly turn it to the side, you can actually see I can see my character twice. And this is just due to how the light's being distorted. And if I stand in front of a full glass block, it'll even magnify whatever's behind it, which is pretty crazy. And this even works on mobs like slimes, which really surprised me. As you can see here, it's both casting light and distorting the visuals of the surroundings. Reflections on surfaces such as water also look very good. And they're not limited in a similar way to say screen space reflections, which when those are enabled, if you look down, the reflections just disappear. Because these reflections are ray traced, they'll always be visible. Now, it is worth mentioning the installation and usage of this mod isn't particularly straightforward, at least not compared to your average Minecraft mod. You'll have to manually download and install the DLSS files within the mod yourself, which isn't particularly difficult and they're very easy to get. But obviously, this isn't a step you're normally going to come across. And the second roadblock, and what I'd probably consider to be the bigger of the two for your average user is the fact that PBR texture packs have to be edited a little bit in order to correctly work with Radiance. There is a Python script provided which you can find on the GitHub page that's listed on the Radiance mod page, but I mean setting this up for the average user might be a little bit extra. Not way too difficult, but I also understand if it feels a little daunting. Overall, Radiance is quite impressive and as of now is still pretty new. In fact, its files are still listed as within the alpha stage on moderate. So, it'll be very interesting to see where the mod improves and goes from here. If you'd like to try this mod for yourself, I'd absolutely make sure you take your time with it and get the installation right. If you don't, there's a decent chance it's just going to crash instantly. Again, the mods page does have a link providing instructions on installing Radiance and making sure you get resource packs set up correctly as well. So, the mod will be linked in the description along with any other mods I used throughout this video. Let me know what you thought in the comments. And if you guys enjoyed, be sure to leave a like and subscribe. And until next time, thanks for watching.



(This is the yt vid find the resource pack that goes with it it should be installed already in the folder and i need u to set up the step one and step 2 making it work with the resource pack so edit the pack and btw im on 1.21.1 not 1.21.4 so edit that and any methods or anything needed to that r not in 1.21.1 but r in 1.21.4)the pack is 1.21.1 tho so)